TWITTER WINDCHIMES - CS50x Final Project
by Daniel Schwartz

Twitter windchimes takes an incoming Twitter stream and uses the data from the stream to create sound in a musical context, much like a traditional set of windchimes.  The idea is to create an audible and pleasant representation of the stream data.  Although in this case I'm using Twitter as the source of the stream, any real-time stream data could be used.

The stream is created using Twitter's standard streaming API and the 'twitter-lite' package.  The keyword "wind" is used to filter the stream and track any mentions of the word.  Using 'socket.io' (which uses a combination of long polling and web socketing to serve the data), the stream is then distributed to the client.  A server application, implemented using express and node.js, handles creating the stream, initializing the socket, and rendering templates.

On the client side, a frequency-modulated synthesizer is created using the Web Audio API.  Upon receiving a stream event, the playback function is called utilizing some of the data from the tweet to control parameters of the synthesizer.  Although some of the parameters are randomized to create a more interesting and musical playback.  It is worth noting that the playback function creates a new oscillator every time it is called, which prevents running into a hard coded limit on the number of simultaneous voices.  The user is provided with several controls to alter the sound of the synth, including volume, reverb amount, modulation depth, oscillator wave-type, and musical tonality.  

The user is also able to view the incoming tweets using Twitter's embedded widget.  The number of tweets shown at a given time is limited.  This could alternatively be implemented using an embedded timeline which would have to be curated by an account.

Initially, it was my intention to allow the user to search for a keyword by which to filter the stream.  However, I found that due to the limitations of the standard streaming API, this is very difficult to implement, so I opted to use the keyword "wind" as a filter for the time being.  This is a feature that I would like to add in the future if possible.  